blog post: unconference overview post (#268)
nordic-rse/nordic-rse.github.io: content/blog/2021-08-11-unconference.md

+++
title="Unconference 2021"
[extra]
author="Nordic-RSE"
+++

# Unconference 2021

> After our plans to meet the community in person in beautiful KTH in Stockholm were prevented by the world situation, we did not want to not meet the community this year, but at the same time were also busy with other work. In order to keep organizational hassle low, but still give the community a place to meet, learn and discuss we decided for the unconference/birds of a feather format. In that way the community could decide on the topics of interest and create an event to their liking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although the world situation prevented our plans to meet the community in person in Stockholm and we were all busy with other works, we did not want to give up meeting the community this year. Thus we decided for the unconference/birds of a feather format to keep organizational hassle low, but still give the community a place to meet, learn, and discuss. In that way, the community could decide on the topics of interest and create an event to their liking.
```

Reviewer: - "in person in beautiful KTH in Stockholm" have 3 "in"-s one after another, so it would be probably fine to say only Stockholm?
- "we did not want to not meet the community" : use of double not makes it a bit difficult to read, at least for me.
- The 2nd sentence: It could be personal preference, but I think having a conclusion first makes it easier to read.

the rest of the event was free for the community to fill.
* Shahnawaz Ahmed from the Wallenberg Centre for Quantum Technology talked about the journey of his Quantum Toolbox in Python (QuTiP) from small research project 
to open source project developed by a community from all around the world.
* Kristoffer Carlsson  from JuliaComputing introduced Julia for research software.
* Anne Fouilloux from Nordic-RSE gave some insights into myths and misconceptions about research software development in academia that she encountered during her work
as an RSE.
The event had 69 registrations from 7 countries (FI,NO,SE,DK,UK,DE,NL). 
Topics ranged from broad (Introduction to Julia, What is R/S/E?, ...) to specific ( Funding for software projects, Development frameworks, Software paper publishing,...) 
with lots of Q&A and discussions. You can find schedule and notes [here](https://nordic-rse.org/events/2021-online-unconference/#schedule) and stay tuned 
for more blogposts (https://nordic-rse.org/blog/) and recordings of the invited talks coming in the near future.

> Since this was the first event of this format, we learned a lot in the process. We definitely want to organize this kind of event again, but will try to bring a bit more order into the submission and decision of talks and discussions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since this was the first event of this format, we learned a lot in the process. We definitely want to organize this kind of event again, but will try to bring a bit more order into the submission and decision of talks and discussions.
Another suggestion we got was to encourage last minute contributions by having more own contributions since it is easier to add the tenth suggestion to a list of nine suggestions rather than adding the first.
```

Reviewer 2: It may not be clear from the diff but only the last sentence got added but nothing else changed.
